=head1 Debugging Helpers

=head2 Via L<Plack::Middleware::Debug>

The dispatcher is wrapping every request in Plack's debugging
middleware and controls it with the environment variable C<ACT_DEBUG>.
To enable debugging, set this variable to a space-separated list of
debugging sections (or "panels", as Plack calls them) like this:

   export ACT_DEBUG="Environment Response Session DBITrace"

The following information sections are available with Plack:

=over

=item Environment

Shows the C<$env> variable which is the input to Acts handlers.  This
is a bit lengthy because Act pushes the its configuration into the
environment, but very helpful because of this very fact.

=item Response

The headers created by Plack

=item Timer

How long the request took.

=item Memory

Memory consumption during processing (as you might have guessed).

=item Session

The contents of the Plack session variable.  This is the session as
managed by Plack in C<< $env-E<gt>{'psgix.session'} >> and I<not> the
session used by Act, though, so of limited use right now.

=item DBITrace

A trace of database actions for this request.  We have no experience
with this.

=back

=head3 Now what are these "panels"?

The Plack middleware pushes the diagnostic content into every HTML
response, for easy access with a browsers (or also by test clients).
It is a CSS-controlled pop-up menu.  Unfortunately, the CSS
customization of some conferences make it invisible - you might need
to adjust (or disable) the style sheets to be able to make use of
that.

=head2 Logging

The application driver C<app.psgi> enables the
L<Plack::Middleware::SimpleLogger> which adds some information to
message it gets and then prints them to the C<psgi.errors> stream.
PSGI servers usually print that to C<STDERR>.  Per default it prints
messages of severity C<warn> and higher.

This logger, though enabled, is pretty much unused in the code until
now.  The only component using it is the authentication module
L<Act::Middleware::Auth> which prints a rich diagnostig message for
failed login attempts.

The logger has five levels of severity C<debug info warn error fatal>,
its usage is documented in L<Plack::Request>:

  $req->logger->({ level => 'debug', message => "This is a debug message" });

Many Act components just C<warn> and hope for the best that someone
will read the message and be able to act upon it.  Making the logging
more consistent is considered a B<TODO>.