=head1 Installing Act for Development

B<Caution:> This installation guide works for branches which have been
migrated from Apache/mod_perl to PSGI as their engine.  That's why
this guide will never appear at the master branch of the original Act
repository.

For Debian systems, the following description has been implemented in the
L<act-starter-debian|https://github.com/HaraldJoerg/act-starter-debian>
toolkit.  The description and the toolkit might occasionally be in
sync.

=head2 Installing System Packages

For a developer installation, install the following packages:

=over

=item I<Git> - fast, scalable, distributed revision control system

Debian package: git

=item I<GNU C compiler> for XS modules installed with cpan(m)

Debian package: gcc

=item I<GNU make> also required by cpanm

Debian: package: make

=item I<GMP (Gnu Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library) headers> for installing Crypt::DH::GMP, a dependency of Net::OpenID::Server

Debian package: libgmp-dev

=item I<Development files for the GNOME XML library> for installing XML::LibXML with cpanm

Debian package: libxml2-dev

=item I<Perl interface to the libxml2 library> XML::LibXML

Debian package: libxml-libxml-2.  This I<could> be installed with cpanm because we already installed the headers, but due to the version dependencies between libxml2 and XML::LibXML I prefer to use the package from the distribution.

=item I<PostgreSQL> - a nice database engine

Debian package: postgresql

=item I<Development headers for PostgreSQL> to build the Perl database driver with cpanm

Debian package: postgresql-server-dev-all

=item I<PNG library headers> for building the Imager modules with cpanm

Debian package: libpng-dev

=item I<JPEG library headers> for building the Imager modules with cpanm

Debian package: libjpeg-dev

=item I<cpanminus> - get the cpanm command.

Debian package: cpanminus

=back

Extra packages to consider for some features:

=over

=item I<Exim> - to send mail

Any program able to send mail will do, all of them are sort of ugly.

Debian package: exim4

=back

=head2 Get Act and Setup the Directory Structure

=over

=item 1. Chose a directory for the source.

Inspired by the L<Linux Filesystem Hierarchy Standard|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard>,
C</opt/Act> would be a suitable location for the software.  If you don't want to use root privileges, you can chose C<~/opt/Act> or any other place.

Create the chosen directory path I<without> the trailing C</Act>.

=item 2. Get Act

The original repository resides at L<https://github.com/book/Act>.  In
addition, there are about 65 forks on GitHub to chose from, in various
states of activity.  You need to pick a branch which incorporates the
changes made by Rob Hoelz, Graham Knop and others in 2011 to make Act
work with PSGI servers.

Clone the repository to your target directory I<without> the trailing
C</Act> like in the following example:

  cd ~/opt
  git clone https://github.com/HaraldJoerg/Act.git

=item 3. Create a directory for the data

Usually it is a good idea to keep data which might change outside of
the source tree.  In production, admins might want to customize the
distribution templates or change translations which should not get
lost after a software update.

Following the FHS, you can chose C</var/opt/Act>, or C<~/var/opt/Act>
(or whereever you like).  Create this directory.  This directory will
be made known to Act as C<$ENV{ACTHOME}> later.

  mkdir --parents ~/var/opt/Act

Link the translations and templates from the source tree to the data
directory: During development, you I<want> to be able to change the
distributed stuff.

  ln --symbolic ~/opt/Act/templates ~/var/opt/Act/templates
  ln --symbolic ~/opt/Act/po        ~/var/opt/Act/po
  mkdir ~/var/opt/Act/photos

=item 4. Create a conference ("demo" in this case)

This files are copied because they are likely changed during tests.
If you want to make changes to the skel files, you need to copy them
back to the checkout area.

  cp -r ~/opt/Act/skel/actdocs ~/var/opt/Act/actdocs/demo
  cp -r ~/opt/Act/skel/wwwdocs ~/var/opt/Act/wwwdocs/demo

=back

=head2 Install the Perl Modules

Thanks to Ilya Chesnokov's psgi_fixes many Act branches now come with
a C<cpanfile>, which makes installation of the required modules a
one-liner:

  cd ~/opt/Act
  cpanm --installdeps .

You might want to add the C<--notest> option if you don't want to wait
for about 15 minutes for this step to complete.

For running the tests, an extra module is suggested:

  cpanm Test::Pod

=head2 Prepare the Databases

=over

=item 1. Create a database user

PostgreSQL comes with a command line utility C<createuser>.
The easiest way is to answer this utility's questions:

  createuser --interactive

A good name for the database user is C<act>.

I<Note:> In older versions of PostgreSQL, C<--interactive> was I<on>
by default, this is why older installation recipes don't mention it.

The recommended settings are: User is no superuser, and may create
databases.

=item 2. Patch the PostgreSQL authentication config

PostgreSQL stores its authentication setup in a file C<pg_hba.conf> in
a directory lile C</etc/postgresql/9.6/main> (9.6 is the Pg version).
In this file, find the following lines:

  # "local" is for Unix domain socket connections only
  local   all             all                            peer

...and change by inserting one line like this:

  # "local" is for Unix domain socket connections only
  local   all             act                            trust
  local   all             all                            peer

This allows to use the database user (act in this case) from the
commandline without a password.  After the change, restart the service:

  sudo service postgresql restart

I<Note:> Following the original installation guide the act user was
created with administrative rights, and I<all> connections were opened up
without a password.  This isn't required, and slightly dangerous,
should you ever use PostgreSQL for other purposes.

=back

=head2 Fix the config.ini files

The main config file is expected to be in C<$ACTHOME/conf/act.ini>.  Copy
the template from the checkout file C<eg/conf/act.ini> to that place
and fix everything where you find C<FIXME> as a value.  Add the database
user and password as provided in the previous step (we don't open
everything up, remember?).

Also fix all FIXMEs in the conference configuration under
C<$ACTHOME/actdocs/demo/act.ini>.

=head2 Create the databases and tables

=over

=item 1. Create the databases

You can now create the databases using your database user name from
the commandline:

  createdb --username=act --encoding=UTF8 --owner=act act
  createdb --username=act --encoding=UTF8 --owner=act acttest
  createdb --username=act --encoding=UTF8 --owner=act actwiki

=item 2. Create the tables

From the checkout area, run:

  bin/dbinit | psql -U act act
  bin/dbinit | psql -U act acttest
  wiki-toolkit-setupdb --type postgres --name actwiki \
                       --user act --pass your_password_here

=back

I<Note:> Recent changes in the code require the configuration to be
fixed for C<dbinit> to run.  This is why this step appears much later
in this recipe than in the original installation guide.

=head2 Enjoy!

You may now try to run the tests from the checkout area:

  prove -lv -I.

If they don't pass, then you either found a bug in the code, or in
this recipe.  Don't hesitate to complain!
