=head1 The central Act configuration file

=encoding utf8

The central Act configuration file is a Windows .ini-style file.  It
contains settings which are relevant for all conferences hosted on
I<this> installation of Act.  It is organized in several sections.
For each of the sections, we show an example configuration followed by
a description of the individual items, at least for I<some> of the
sections.

=head2 Section C<general>

  [general]
  conferences = tpc-2018-glasgow lpw2019 ....
  searchlimit = 20
  dir_photos  = photos
  dir_ttc     = $(home)/var
  max_imgsize = 320x200
  root        = $(home)

=over

=item C<conferences>

A space-separated list of conferences served by this installation.

=item C<searchlimit>

The limit of entries produced on one screen by a user search.

=item C<dir_photos>

Where user photos are stored.  This directory must exist.  If this is
a relative path, it is taken relative to the C<ACTHOME> environment
variable.

This is a global variable because Act's authentication scheme is
per-installation and not per-conference.

=item C<dir_ttc>

Directory for compiled templates.  This directory must exist.

=item C<max_imgsize>

The maximum width and height for user photos in pixels, given as
I<width>C<x>I<height>.  If users upload larger photos, they will be
resized, keeping the aspect ratio, so that they comply with both
limits.

=item C<root>

This is the internal value for Act's root directory, usually provided
externally with the environment variable C<ACTHOME> which gets
translated to the conffiguration variable C<home>.

FIXME: The consequences of having C<root> different from C<home> are
pretty unclear.  So don't do that.

=back

=head2 Section C<database>

  [database]
  name        = act
  dsn         = dbi:Pg:dbname=$(database_name)
  user        = dbuser
  passwd      = dbpass
  test_dsn    = dbi:Pg:dbname=acttest
  test_user   = dbuser
  test_passwd = dbpass
  pg_dump     = 1
  dump_file   = /tmp/dbdump

  # Required for waterkip's fork preparing dockerization.  They are in
  # the code, but missing from everywhere else.  If they aren't
  # defined, there is a warning per request for each variable (A
  # feature of AppConfig).  Note that defining 'localhost' as the host
  # name will change the database driver's protocol from "local" to
  # "host".  By using a "defined but false" value here we keep the
  # "local" (UNIX sockets) protocol for a database on the same host.
  version_check = 0
  host = 0

=over

=item C<name>

The name of the Act database.

=item C<dsn>, C<user>, C<password>

Connection parameters for the database.

=item C<test_dsn>, C<test_user>, C<test_password>

The tests can be run against a different database.

=item C<pg_dump>, C<dump_file>

The command and the target file for the database backup (PostgreSQL
only).  A false value for C<pg_dump> prohibits backups with
F<bin/dbbackup>.

=back

=head2 Section C<email>

  [email]
  test        = 0
  sender_address = root@localhost

=over

=item C<test>

If true, then it should be a mail address of a tester who receives
copies of all outgoing mails.

=item C<sender_address>

This is used as the "From" address for outgoing mails.  Usually this
setting is overridden by organizers for their own conference, but
sometimes Act might want to send mails without a conference context.

=back


=head2 Section C<wiki>
  [wiki]
  dbname      = actwiki
  dbuser      = dbuser
  dbpass      = dbpass

  # Required for waterkip's fork preparing dockerization,
  # see above for details.
  dbhost = 0

As above, these are the settings for the wiki database.
Note that there's no DSN parameter: The Act wiki assumes
a PostGreSQL database.

=head2 Section C<payment>

[payment]
  open      = 0
  invoices  = 0
  type        = Fake
  notify_bcc  = tester@localhost

Hopefully you understand the documentation in
L<Act::Manual::Provider::Payment>, because I don't.

=head2 Section C<payment_type_*>

  [payment_type_Fake]
  plugin = Fake

Every payment type as chosen in the previous sections has its own
parameters, to be implemented as a Plugin.

=head2 Section C<flickr>

  [flickr]
  # see http://www.flickr.com/services/api/
  apikey  = 0123456789ABCDEF0123456789ABCDEF

See L<Act::Manual::Organizer::Photos> for a description.
